---
sidebar_position: 6
sidebar_label: "Packages"
hide_table_of_contents: true
hide_title: true
pagination_next : null
pagination_prev : null
title: "Package Management"
---

## Package Management

### What are ModuleFiles?

Modulefiles are files that are used to setup the local environment to configure various software packages.

### What is Spack?

The HPC facility provides users access to Spack, a package management tool designed to support multiple versions and configurations of a software on a wide variety of platforms and environments.

### What is the difference between Modulefiles and Spack?

Modulefiles are either generated by the package or by the administrator. On the other hand, Spack is a superset of modulefiles and generates the appropriate modulefiles for the installed package. An advantage of Spack is that it offers dependency management for packages.


### Between Modulefiles and Spack, which is more user friendly? 
Spack is more user friendly and also offers bash auto-completion for its commands. It simplifies package management and version control for the system administrator.

### Where to find more information about the command line syntax for Spack and Modulefiles?

You can type `spack help` to get information about the command line syntax for Spack. Similarly, type `module help` for information related to Modulefiles.
For further details kindly visit the links for [Spack](https://spack.readthedocs.io/en/latest/command_index.html) and [Modulefiles](https://modules.readthedocs.io/en/stable/modulefile.html).